5 things that interest me would have to be anime, comics, video games, movies, and probably animals. I’m going to write about anime though, because I have this theory that pertains to famous shonen anime like Naruto and Dragon Ball Z. The first part of this theory is that, of course, not everyone watches anime. Maybe it doesn’t suit their taste or maybe they think it’s for kids, I really don’t know, but you get the idea. The big but, however, is that while everyone doesn’t watch it; the VAST majority of black guys that I know absolutely love Dragon Ball Z and Naruto.  By vast majority, I mean at least 75%. The question I have about this, though, is “Why?” I have a few ideas about that which are all encapsulated in a little something that I’d like to call “The honorary nigga theory”. I already know; it’s an amazing name that clearly won’t offend anybody, but it will become clear in a moment why I chose it.
I remember getting home from school very late most nights because practices for most sports would end around 6 or 7pm. That’s the time when Cartoon Network’s anime block, Toonami, would start. What were Toonami’s main shows you might ask? Shonens such as Dragon Ball Z, Naruto, One Piece, and Bleach.I’ve used this word “shonen” a few times now and it’s pretty important for this theory so I’ll explain it. A shonen anime is a genre target primarily at teen and preteen boy where there is a lot of action and the main character grows over the course of the show. To put it simply, if shonen anime were a song they would be Drake’s “Started from the Bottom”.
The formula for a successful shonen anime parallels many of the struggles that Black people face growing up. First, there is the main character who is going to start out on the bottom of whatever social hierarchy there is. Then, they are going to face some sort of prejudice. For whatever reason, be it the fact that the character is foreign or doesn’t fit the typical mold of a normal character on the show, they will be singled out and labeled as an “other”. Other characters won’t want anything to do with them and the main character will be emotionally and physically isolated from their peers. The character will inevitably have some goal that they want to accomplish and all other characters will be little them and tell them that it is not possible. Naruto wanted to be Hokage, Luffy wanted to become the pirate king, Goku wanted to become the strongest fighter in the world. In spite of all the injustice they face, through their sheer willpower and determination, the main character will accomplish their goals. In doing so they will gain the respect of their peers who once shunned them and will finally become accepted by their societies. Of course, every story is different but this is just the main things each of them hit.
I think that the reason so many African Americans have so much admiration for these series is because, although they may not have intended it, the stories serve as a pretty accurate portrayal of growing up Black in America. The characters face prejudice and injustices from a very young age, as do we. They are commonly told that they can’t become what they want to and are expected to fit into some box due to preconceived notions, as are we. And they live their lives according to that old saying that “you have to work twice as hard for half as much”. For these reasons I think that it would be impossible for most African Americans to watch these shows, which normally run for at least a decade, and not see some part of themselves in the characters.
In class, we had many discussions on the merits of HBCUs and what they mean for our culture. We also argued over whether white America was appropriating our culture and whether we should be offended  by it or honored by it. HBCus encourage us to find what connects us and one off those things for me is my love of Goku and Naruto. I can’t count the amount of times that I’d be introduced to someone and end up bonding with them over our opinions on the shows and characters. Ultimately, we ended up agreeing that white America’s cultural appropriation wasn’t to be celebrated and that they should find some way different that respects our culture. This got me thinking about how, lowkey, I feel as if we appropriated these anime and perhaps the entire genre. While I definitely feel as if their is a place for these anime within our culture I must ask “At what point does something become part of our culture. Even more than that, at what point does something that wasn’t created for or by us become part of it?”
